W-15308411-munit-outline-duke (#288)
mulesoft/docs-code-builder: modules/ROOT/pages/int-test-munit.adoc

:check-for-tests: To check for test suites, see <<open-test>>.
:test-debug-options: Run tests with or without debugging features. If your XML contains breakpoints and you opt to debug, test execution stops at your breakpoints. For information about debugging, see <<run-debug>>.
:open-xml-test-options: If you do not see these menu items, be sure to open the XML file from the image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-munit-go-to-test-gray.png["",18,18] or highlighted image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-munit-go-to-test.png["",18,18] (Go to test) icon (Go to test) icon in the Testing panel.
:munit-src: /src/test/munit
:clear-results: To clear test results, see <<clear-results>>.
:right-click: You can select the same options from the right-click menu.
//end local/shared attributes

include::reuse::partial$beta-banner.adoc[tag="anypoint-code-builder"]

Run, modify, and create MUnit tests for your implementation and integration projects in Anypoint Code Builder. Import projects that contain MUnit test files. 

MUnit is a MuleSoft unit testing framework for creating and running unit tests on a Mule application, as described in xref:munit::index.adoc[MUnit Overview]. 

> Anypoint Code Builder provides a Testing panel from which you can run tests. In the Explorer, test suites are also located within the project directory `{munit-src}`. The IDE also provides a Testing Results panel that provides the status of tests and logs that identify the status of  tests that you run. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Code Builder provides a Testing panel from which you can run tests. In the Explorer, test suites are also located within the project directory `{munit-src}`. The IDE also provides a Testing Results panel that provides the status of tests and logs that identify the status of tests that you run. 
```

Author: They can also run tests from other places, so I don't want to tell them to run from there necessarily.

"show" as a verb doesn't really work in that context 

"Explorer"

> Anypoint Code Builder provides a Testing panel from which you can run tests. In the Explorer, test suites are also located within the project directory `{munit-src}`. The IDE also provides a Testing Results panel that provides the status of tests and logs that identify the status of  tests that you run. 

Author: ```suggestion
Anypoint Code Builder provides a Testing panel from which you can run tests. In the Explorer, test suites are also located within the project directory `{munit-src}`. The IDE also provides a Testing Results panel that provides the status of tests and logs that identify the status of tests that you run. 
```

//TODO TO SELF: TEST LINKS LOCALLY -- RESOURCES NOT BUILT ON REVIEW SITE
For MUnit features supported by Anypoint Code Builder, see xref:acb-release-notes.adoc[Anypoint Code Builder Release Notes]. xref:studio::index.adoc[Anypoint Studio] also supports MUnit testing features.

////
[%header,cols="1a,1a"]
|===
| Test Suites in the Testing Panel
image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-munit-testing.png["",18,18]
| Test Suites in the Explorer
image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-explorer.png["",18,18]

|image::anypoint-code-builder::munit-tests-panel.png["MUnit tests in the Testing panel"]
|image::anypoint-code-builder::munit-tests-explorer.png["MUnit tests in the Explorer"]
|===
////

> Anypoint Code Builder - MUnit Extension, part of the Anypoint Extension Pack, supports MUnit functionality in Anypoint Code Builder. For  information about extensions, see xref:index.adoc#extension-pack[Anypoint Extension Pack].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Code Builder - MUnit Extension, part of the Anypoint Extension Pack, supports MUnit functionality in Anypoint Code Builder. For information about extensions, see xref:index.adoc#extension-pack[Anypoint Extension Pack].
```

//TODO: ADD MAVEN VERSION MINIMUM TO 

[[prereqs]]
== Before You Begin

Understand the fundamentals of MUnit. Refer to the MUnit documentation for an overview and guidance with test configurations:

* xref:munit::index.adoc[MUnit Overview]
* xref:munit::munit-test-concept.adoc[]
* xref:munit::event-processors.adoc[]
* xref:munit::munit-cookbook.adoc[]

//

> For MUnit features supported by Anypoint Code Builder, see xref:acb-release-notes.adoc[]. Anypoint Studio supports testing with the full range of MUnit features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For MUnit features supported by Anypoint Code Builder, see xref:acb-release-notes.adoc[]. Anypoint Studio supports testing with all MUnit features.
```

//
//MUNIT WORKFLOWS AND TASKS
[[workflow]]
== MUnit Tasks and Workflows

A typical workflow includes one or more of the following steps:

. <<open-test, Opening tests>>
. <<run, Running tests>>
. <<run-debug, Debugging>>
. <<fix-errors, Fixing errors>>

If your project does not contain any tests, Anypoint Code Builder supports the following tasks:

* <<import-test, Importing a project that contains MUnit tests>>
* <<create-tests, Creating tests or test suites in an existing project>>

//
//OPEN MUNIT TESTS
[[open-test]]
== Open MUnit Tests

> Open the test suite XML from the Testing panel or from the Explorer. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the test suite XML from the Testing panel or the Explorer. 
```
Global: If Testing and Explorer are UI elements, they should be bold. Otherwise, they should be lowercase if you are just referring to general testing and explorer panels.

+
image::anypoint-code-builder::munit-tests-panel.png["MUnit tests in the Testing panel"] 
+
//TODO: BUT YOU CAN'T RUN THE TEST FROM THE XML IN THIS CASE :(
Clicking the test name also opens to the XML file. 

* *Explorer* - From the Explorer, locate MUnit test suite files in the project directory:
//open project (with tests) step as local variable
. {open-project}
. In the activity bar, click the (image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-explorer.png["",18,18]) (Explorer) icon. 
. Navigate to `src/main/test/munit`. For example:
+
image::anypoint-code-builder::munit-tests-explorer.png["MUnit tests in the Explorer"]
. Click a test suite XML file to view the tests in the suite. 

//
//RUN MUNIT TESTS
[[run]]
== Run MUnit Tests

Run MUnit tests using any of these options:

* <<run-test-panel>>
* <<run-test-xml>>
* <<run-launch-config>>
* <<run-debug>>
//TODO: CONSIDER ADDING WHEN WORKING (SECTION REMOVED UNTIL THEN)
//* <<run-test-explorer>>

When you run a test, a test build executes, and the Terminal displays the progress of the test. If all tests execute successfully the build succeeds. Otherwise, the build fails. 

> The IDE displays the results of the tests in the Testing panel, the *Terminal* and the Test Results panels. Time-stamped logs are also available from the Test Results panel. You can clear the results at any time.

Reviewer: If Terminal is bold, the other panels(Testing, Results) should also be bold because they are all part of the UI, right? Please ensure consistency when using these terms.

Author: created story, see belo

//
//RUN: FROM TEST PANEL
[[run-test-panel]]
=== Run Tests from the Testing Panel

Run all tests, all tests in a suite, or a single test from the Testing panel. The Testing panel lists all MUnit test suites in the project.

To run tests:

//open project (with tests) step as local variable
. {open-project} 
+
//local variable to check for tests: 
{check-for-tests}
. From the activity bar, click the image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-munit-testing.png["",18,18] (Testing) icon to open the Testing panel.
+

> If the icon is not present, try right-clicking within the activity bar and selecting *Testing* to display the icon. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the icon is not present, right-click the activity bar and select *Testing* to display the icon. 
```

Author: This is something that might work, but there could be other causes of this not appearing, which is the reason for "try". Because they might need to try something else.

. Run tests from the Testing panel at any of three levels:
+
image:anypoint-code-builder::munit-testing-panel.png["Testing panel"]
+
//info and link to section on debugging:
{test-debug-options}
+
--
[calloutlist]

> .. All suites: Run all tests in all suites by clicking the *Run Tests* or *Debug Tests* icon. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. All suites: To run all tests in all suites, click the *Run Tests* or *Debug Tests* icon. 
```

//or right-click:
{right-click}

> .. Suite: Run all tests in a single suite by hovering over or clicking the suite, and then clicking the *Run Test* or *Debug Test* icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Suite: To run all tests in a single suite, hover over or click the suite, and then click the *Run Test* or *Debug Test* icon.
```

//or right-click:
{right-click}

> .. Test: Run a single test by hovering over or clicking a test in a test suite, and then clicking the *Run Test* or *Debug Test* icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Test: To run a single test, hover over or click a test in a test suite, and then click the *Run Test* or *Debug Test* icon.
```

//info and link to section on debugging:
{test-debug-options}

To run tests from the test suite XML: 

. From the Testing panel, open a test suite XML file in your project.
+
For guidance with opening from the Testing panel, see <<open-test>>.
. Run a single test or all tests in the test suite XML file:
+
--
image:munit-xml-test-options.png["Testing options from test suite XML"]

//run single test option:
* To run a single test in the test suite XML:
.. Place your cursor on a line that contains the XML for a test (`munit:test`). 
+
For example, on any line within XML similar to this example:
+
[source,xml]
----
<munit:test name="test-02-suite1">
  <munit:validation>
    <munit-tools:assert-equals actual='#["that"]' expected='#["this"]' />
  </munit:validation>
</munit:test>
---- 
.. Right-click, and select one of the following options:

** *Run Test at Cursor*
** *Debug Test at Cursor*
+
{open-xml-test-options}
//run all tests option:
* To run all tests in the test suite XML: 
.. Place your cursor in the XML file.
.. Right-click, and select one of the following options:

** *Run Tests in Current File*
** *Debug Tests in Current File*
+
{open-xml-test-options}
--
//next step:

> . Check the status of the running test in the Testing, Terminal, and Testing Results panels. See the <<results-example, example>>.

Reviewer: Global: Bold UI panel names, or non-bold lowercase if they are general names.

Author: story created for this stuff, see below

//local variable to clear results:
{clear-results}

//
//RUN: LAUNCH CONFIG
[[run-launch-config]]
=== Run Tests with an MUnit Launch Configuration

Run MUnit tests from the Run and Debug panel with an MUnit launch configuration. 

[[launch-json-manual]]
Create and run an MUnit launch configuration:
 
//step to open run&debug panel:
include::anypoint-code-builder::partial$acb-reusable-steps.adoc[tag="open-run-debug"]
. Add a launch configuration to `launch.json`: 

> .. Click the image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-gear.png["",18,18] (gear) icon to open the *launch.json* tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Click the image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-gear.png["",18,18] (gear) button to open the *launch.json* tab.
```

Author: we're referring to these everywhere as the icon ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

Author: I'll create a separate story to address this ("icon") and the names for things in the UI (e.g., "Explorer", etc.) so that we deal with it everywhere in a PR instead of on just this page. 

https://gus.lightning.force.com/lightning/r/ADM_Work__c/a07EE00001qtD9XYAU/view

.. Launcher for the standard debugger, named `Debug Mule Application`.
.. Launcher for the MUnit debugger, named `Munit Run Tests`.
--
. Save the configuration to `launch.json`.
. Run MUnit tests from the *MUnit Debug Tests* launch configuration:
.. In the Run and Debug panel, select *MUnit Debug Tests* from the launch menu. For example:
+
image:munit-launch-config-munit.png["Selecting *MUnit Debug Tests* from the launch menu"]
.. Execute *MUnit Debug Tests* by clicking the image:icon-start-debug.png["",18,18] (launch) button in the Run an Debug panel.
. Verify that the MUnit tests run. See the <<results-example, example>>.

//
//RUN: DEBUG
[[run-debug]]
== Run MUnit Tests in Debug Mode

Run your test in debug mode after adding breakpoints to the XML for your tests or Mule application. When Mule reaches the breakpoint, you can review variables in the Run and Debug panel. 

//open project (with tests) step as local variable
. {open-project} 
. Add breakpoints to the XML for the Mule application or test suites. 
+
For guidance with breakpoints and the Mule event, see xref:int-debug-mule-apps.adoc[].
. Run your test with a debugging command using one of the following options:

> * From the Testing panel, click a image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-munit-run-debug.png["",18,18] (Debug test) icon at any level (all tests, all tests in a suite, or a single test).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* From the Testing panel, click a image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-munit-run-debug.png["",18,18] (Debug test) button at any level (all tests, all tests in a suite, or a single test).
```

Author: same comment

Author: created story to deal with this comprehensively, see above

+
For more guidance, see <<run-test-panel>>.

> * From the suite XML, use the right-click menu to run the text. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* From the suite XML, use the context menu to run the text. 
```

Author: Not sure what people will think the "context menu" is

+
For more guidance, see <<run-test-xml>>.
* From a launch configuration in the Run and Debug panel. 
+
For guidance, see <<run-launch-config>>.

> . When the build process reaches a breakpoint, click the image:icon-run-debug.png["",18,18] (Run and Debug panel) icon from the activity bar to review variables, including the Mule event variables and test parameters. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. When the build process reaches a breakpoint, click the image:icon-run-debug.png["",18,18] (Run and Debug panel) button from the activity bar to review variables, including the Mule event variables and test parameters. For example:
```

Author: same comment

Author: story created for this stuff, see above

+
image:anypoint-code-builder::munit-debug-test-mule-event.png["Variables after debugging test with breakpoints"]
//TODO: VERIFY STEP, ANYTHING TO ADD?
. Examine the data, and address any issues.

> By default, running tests fail after a timeout period. If a debugging session reaches a breakpoint in a test, the test and the build fails at timeout. See xref:munit::munit-test-concept.adoc#test-timeout-attribute[Test TimeOut Attribute]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, running tests fail after a timeout period. If a debugging session reaches a breakpoint in a test, the test and the build fail at timeout. See xref:munit::munit-test-concept.adoc#test-timeout-attribute[Test TimeOut Attribute]. 
```

//
//FIX ERRORS
[[fix-errors]]
== Fix Test Errors

> After <<run, running a test>>, fix any errors.
> 
> . Review test errors in the XML by clicking a failing test's name from the Testing panel. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After <<run, running a test>>, review and fix any errors in the XML by following these steps:

. Click a failing test's name from the Testing panel. 
```
Optional suggestion

+
image:anypoint-code-builder::munit-test-panel-failed-test.png["All test results displayed in Testing panel and with an error highlighted in the XML"]
//TODO: TO SELF - HIDING: ALREADY EMBEDDED IN IMAGE ABOVE -REMOVE?
//image:icon-munit-open-failed-test.png["Opening failed test from Test panel"]
+
The error in the XML example identifies the error `java.lang.AssertionError`.

* Expected result (highlighted in red):
+
----
"yes" as String {encoding: "UTF-8", mediaType: "application/java; 
                 charset=UTF-8", mimeType: "application/java", 
                class: "java.lang.String", contentLength: 3}
----

* Actual result (highlighted in green):
+
----
"no" as String {encoding: "UTF-8", mediaType: "application/java; 
                charset=UTF-8", mimeType: "application/java", 
                class: "java.lang.String", contentLength: 2} at (root)
----
+
You can also review the test results in the Test Results panel by clicking the failing test in the test logs. For example:
+
image:anypoint-code-builder::munit-test-results-panel-failed.png["Error in the Test Results panel"]
. Fix the error:

> .. After reviewing the error, click the *x* icon to close the error message in the XML. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. After reviewing the error, click the *x* button to close the error message in the XML. For example:
```

Author: same comment as above (story created)

+
image:anypoint-code-builder::munit-test-error-xml-close.png["Closing test error messages in the XML"]
.. Edit the XML to produce the expected output.
+
For example, the failing test case in the example must return `"yes"` instead of `"no"`.
. After fixing the error, rerun the test to ensure that the fix works:

> * To rerun the test from the XML, click the image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-munit-failed-test.png["",18,18] (Test failure) icon for the test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To rerun the test from the XML, click the image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-munit-failed-test.png["",18,18] (Test failure) button for the test.
```

Author: same comment as above (story created)

> * To rerun the test from the Testing panel, click the image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-munit-run-test.png["",18,18] (Run test) icon. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To rerun the test from the Testing panel, click the image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-munit-run-test.png["",18,18] (Run test) button. 
```

Author: same comment as above (story created)

> * To rerun the test fro the Testing Results panel, open the panel, click the failing test in the test logs, and click the image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-munit-run-test.png["",18,18] (Run test) icon from the test logs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To rerun the test from the Testing Results panel, open the panel, click the failing test in the test logs, and click the image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-munit-run-test.png["",18,18] (Run test) icon from the test logs. 
```

. Make sure that the test passes. For example:
+
image:anypoint-code-builder::munit-tests-results-pass.png["Successful test in the Test Results panel"]

For guidance with MUnit XML configurations, see xref:munit::munit-test-concept.adoc[] and xref:munit::event-processors.adoc[].

//local variable to clear results:
{clear-results}

//
// IMPORT PROJECT WITH TESTS
[[import-test]]
== Import a Project that Contains MUnit Tests

Mule projects created in Anypoint Studio and Anypoint Code Builder for your integrations or implementations can include MUnit tests.

//TODO: IMPORT FROM EXCHANGE ALSO? 

* To import and open the project into Anypoint Code Builder, see xref:int-import-mule-project.adoc[]. 

> * To export a project from Anypoint Studio before importing to Anypoint Code Builder, use one of the procedures in xref:studio:import-export-packages.adoc#export-project-studio[Export Projects From Studio]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To export a project from Anypoint Studio and import it to Anypoint Code Builder, use one of the procedures in xref:studio:import-export-packages.adoc#export-project-studio[Export Projects From Studio]. 
```
Not sure if this suggestion is accurate, please ignore if that's the case.

Author: Yeah, this is pointing people to the Studio doc page on exporting a project: https://docs.mulesoft.com/studio/latest/import-export-packages

People will often want to export from Studio before importing to ACB

* To start an integration that imports an example or template that contains MUnit tests from Anypoint Exchange, see xref:int-create-integrations.adoc#create-integration-project[Create an Integration Project].
+

> Instead of starting with an empty project when creating the integration project, click *Template or Example Project* so that you can import the asset that contains tests into your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating the integration project, click *Template or Example Project* and import the asset that contains tests into your project.
```

Author: This one is an option where you can create from scratch, but in this case, I'm telling them that an alternative is to import a project from a template or example. Trying to emphasize the contrast here.

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<mule xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" 
                 xmlns:munit="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/munit" 
                 xmlns:munit-tools="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/munit-tools" 
                 xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core" 
                 xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation" 
                 xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
                 http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/munit http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/munit/current/mule-munit.xsd
                 http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/munit-tools  
                 http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/munit-tools/current/mule-munit-tools.xsd">
	
  <munit:config name="my-suite.xml" />

</mule>
----
. Proceed to <<create-test>>.

[[create-test]]
=== Create an MUnit Test

Create an MUnit test in a new or existing test suite. Use auto-complete from the MUnit XML to start an MUnit tests. For guidance with your test configuration, refer to the <<prereqs, MUnit documentation>> described in the prerequisties.

> . Open test suite XML in the editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Open the test suite XML in the editor.
```

+
For guidance, see <<open-test>>.
. In the XML, press Ctrl+Space to display available options, and type `munit`. For example:
+
image:anypoint-code-builder::munit-tests-test-xml-autocomplete.png["Using autocomplete in the XML to select the MUnit test element"]

> . Select `munit:test` place the test element to your suite. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select `munit:test` and insert the test element in your suite. For example:
```

+
[source,xml]
----
<munit:test name="name" >
  
</munit:test>
----
. Provide a name and other XML elements to create the test.
+
For example, on any line within XML similar to this example:
+
[source,xml]
----
<munit:test name="test-01-suite1">
  <munit:validation>
    <munit-tools:assert-equals actual='#["that"]' expected='#["this"]' />
  </munit:validation>
</munit:test>
---- 
. Run your test from the Test panel.
+
For guidance, see <<run>>.

//
//CLEAR TEST RESULTS
[[clear-results]]
== Clear Test Results

> After testing, you can clear test results from the Testing panel and the logs if you no longer need them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After testing, you can clear test results from the Testing panel and the logs.
```

Author: trying to indicate the reason/rationale why they might want to clear them, but I want them to think about whether they might need them later, in which case they might decide against removing. I'm not sure that they can get this info back if they decided they actually want it.

* From the Testing panel, click image: (Views and More Actions), and select *Clear All Results*. For example:
+
image:munit-clear-test-results-panel.png["Clearing test results from Testing panel"]

> * From the Test Results panel, click image:icon-munit-clear-test-results.png["",18,18] (Clear All Results) icon. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* From the Test Results panel, click image:icon-munit-clear-test-results.png["",18,18] (Clear All Results) button. For example:
```

Author: same comment as above (story created)
